# Data-Analysis-and-Data-Management-on-Suicidal-and-Depressing-Tweets

The central idea taken for the project by observing this online data is to fetch data from the famous networking website Reddit pre lockdown and post lockdown to analyze the deteriorating mental health of people, what exactly do they type and fetching those keywords to form our database and work on analyzing it.The team plans to fetch data from the keywords belonging to a category of tweets r/depression andr/suicide-watch on Reddit.The team attempts to train a model which can predict if a post or a tweet falls in these 2 categories and hence traces the records to depressive and suicidal tweets, collects the data and manages the database by analyzing and filtering tweets are required.

During the pandemic, people faced mental health issues and were struggling to cope up locked in home and hence, people started sharing feelings on social media either anonymously or becoming vocal. They sought social media like Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, and Reddit saw such posts come to light. Reddit is a very popular social media app where people can post anonymously and share feelings. There are 2 sub reddits dedicated to depression and suicide. They are - r/depression and r/suicidewatch. They are specifically dedicated to helping people in these situations. Reddit has a good API with which we can post and fetch data. So, we decided to fetch data from reddit and perform predictive analysis using this data. The idea behind this was to bring forth data visualization and predictive data analysis as the key heroes in this project. Through analysing data with this model, the team attempts to train a model which can predict if a post or a tweet falls in these 2 categories and hence traces the records to depressive and suicidal tweets, collects the data and manages the database by analysing and filtering tweets are required. Data is scraped from these posts and further taken for data analysis. Aspects of data visualisation are also used. The focus is on Data Scraping and Big Data Analysis.
Motivation : The motivation for this project stems from the fact that people post a lot of content online and are very vocal about their mental health. In the lockdown phase worldwide in 2020, People started facing Depression and even became suicidal. Death of their beloved celebrities specifically due to suicide made things appear a lot more fragile than they were. Many people posted online and vented about they wanted to die or are feeling painfully low. 
Many tweets surfaced and in countries like Canada, things seemed to be available pretty much online  for the most part. Due to such a large data available and the lack of it being filtered out, the team decided to  bring an idea into being regarding training a model that could predict if any post or tweet falls under the category of being either suicidal or depressing, so it could be filtered out and immediate help could also be made available through online medium for whoever posted so. This model serves to be helpful in predictive data analysis as well as lemmatization of important words in tweets and posts. Seeing such a large dataset gave the team motivation to work on the project and even think of future scope for the database, like trying to model Google’s State-of-the-Art NLP model BERT. 


For more information check the doc file
